README.md, before:

# Planet Memory
 
Welcome to Planet Memory! Choose a planet and play a memory game from that planet. Choose Earth, Mars or the Moon and match each card with its pair. Each card is reflective of the planet it belongs to. Hurry! Match each card before the timer runs out and watch your pairs being counted on the scoreboard.
 
Planet Memory is a simple memory game targeted towards kids/people who like to play spock games. Planet Memory is a fully responsive Javascript game that allows the user to match a pair of cards, playing against the timer to win the game. The counter updates as the user gets a correct match and alerts the user if they match correctly, incorrectly or if the time is up.
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/responsive.png)
 
 
# Features
 
- The homepage of Planet Memory hosts the instructions and 3 links within a list to take the user to each game. It also has the title of the site "Planet Memory" in the header and a footer at the end of the page.
 
# Header
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/header.png)
 
- The header contains the title of my site and an icon to reflect the theme of the game. 
- I also placed a favicon icon in the url for a more aesthetically pleasing user experience. 
- I chose the font Roboto as I felt it reflected the theme of the game the best. 
- The title is easy to see upon viewing the page. 
 
# Instructions
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/instructions.png)
 
- I placed the instructions in a div called aside and styled it in accordance with the website's palette. 
- I added a font awesome icon for aesthetic purposes. 
- The instructions are clear, concise and the first thing the user is drawn to. 
 
# Navigation
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/navigation.png) 

- I placed the navigation to each game in a list and gave each an icon to reflect which planet it was and therefore what theme of game it would be. 
- I followed the website's palette again and spread out the list evenly. 
- When the user hovers over each planet block it changes colour. I thought this was a nice feature for aesthetic purposes.
 
# Footer
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/footer.png)
 
- The footer contains the title of my site and two icons to reflect the theme of the game. 
- I wrote sponsored by NASA as I used NASA's logo colouring as the palette of my website.
 
# Game Area
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/game.png)
 
## Earth Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/earthGame.png)
 
- If the user selects Earth they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again. 
 
- I chose images of the earth as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores planet earth while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the sea, whales, mountains etc all to reflect our blue planet.
 
## Mars Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/marsGame.png)
 
- If the user selects Mars they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again.
 
- I chose images of Mars as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores Mars while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the red planet, rover, an astronaut, galaxies and even a UFO (for fun) all to reflect the red planet.
 
## Moon Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/MoonGame.png)
 
- If the user selects the Moon they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again.
 
- I chose images of the Moon as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores the Moon while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the moon, the Moon setting from earth, the planting of the US flag, a rocket etc all to reflect the Moon.
 
## Score Board & Timer
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/timer.png)
 
- I positioned the scoreboard with the timer to keep it neat. 
- When the user gets a correct match the board updates. The timer counts back from 1 minute. 
- Given the general simplicity of this memory game I thought one minute was enough time to try and solve the matches. 
- The timer counts back once the game is opened. If there is no user interaction with the page the timer will keep resetting. 
- If the timer gets to zero the game is over and the player will be asked if they want to play again. 
- There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish.

## Color Palette

![This is an image](/assets/css/images/nasa.png)
 
- I chose the Nasa logo as the basis for my color palette as I felt it was fitting with the theme. 
 
# Features Left to Implement
 
- I would like to add levels to my game by giving the player less time to play the game- reducing the timer to 30 seconds and so forth. 
- I would like to implement a leaderboard to increase the competitiveness of my game. 
- I would like the user to be able to select a character before exploring each planet. 
- I want to update the images to better quality images to reflect each planet more adequately.
 
# Testing
 
- I tested my site on all formats- mobile phones, tablets and desktops. I used developer tools to make sure my site works on all device sizes. 
- I sent my deployed link to friends and family to double check that it worked adequately on all different types of screens. 
- I tested my site on the website - responsive design checker- which ran my site through a variety of different screen sizes and devices. 
- I inspected each one and was happy with the level of responsivity.
 
- I ran my deployed site on Google Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Opera to make sure all worked well.
 
## Mobile Devices
 
- On Mobile Devices I decided to set each section to 100% width so it would fill the screen of the phone. I thought this made for a good user experience and made everything clearer to read. On Mobile devices that were less than 376px I decided to hide the footer. I found it looked over crowded and made for a better user experience without it.
 
- On Mobile Screens larger than 414px I reintroduced the footer but made the font size 6px so that it wouldn't take up too much space. I placed the back button near the game to make it easy for the user to return to the home page if they desired to.
 
## Tablet Devices
 
- On tablet devices I expanded the content over the width of the screen as well using media queries. Similar to the mobile devices I placed the game under the timer and correct answer board and placed the back button near the game for easy user experience. The footer is also present here as there is more room for it.
 
- With the Surface Duo in particular I decided to treat it more like a mobile phone device as the screen size is small for a tablet (540px) so I pushed the game near the top of the screen and placed the back button beside the game for easy user experience.
 
## Desktop Devices
 
- For Nest Hub, 13" Notebook and 10" Notebook (screen under 1024px) I spread the content across the width of the screen. Placing the game directly under the timer and correct answer board. I placed the button to the left of the screen for easy user experience.
 
- For Nest Hub Max and larger desktop screen sizes I took a different approach and spaced the content of my game differently. I did not stretch the instruction box on the index page as personally I thought it looked too stretched and took up too much space. I also made the navigation to each game smaller. For the gaming section I pushed the correct answer box and timer to the left of the screen and placed the game beside it with the back button just underneath it. I noticed a lot of empty space on the screen when its that size but I preferred this look than trying to spread everything out as when I made the game bigger the images were distorted.
 
# Validator Testing
 
 
## HTML
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/html.png)
- No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator
## CSS
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/css.png)
- No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator
## JavaScript
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/js.png)
- No errors were found when passing through the official Jshint validator
## Accessibility
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/lighthouse.png)
- The colors and fonts chosen in the making of this site are easy to read and accessible by running through lighthouse in devtools.
 
# Unfixed Bugs
 
- I was unable to fix the bug in the timer. The alert pops up when the timer is at 0:01 instead of 0:00. I have programmed an if statement to alert when it's 0:00 but for some reason it alerts at 0:01 and then when the user clicks 'ok' it changes to 0:00 and restarts the clock.
 
- I attempted to change to -1 but because I am preventing the timer going into the negative this did not work. I attempted to make another if statement with the condition (time = time < 0 ? 0 : time;) so the alert would come up at exactly 0:00 but I couldn't manage to get this to work before the deadline.
 
# Deployment
 
- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
 
1. In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
2. From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
3. Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.
 
- The live link can be found here - https://healygi.github.io/planet-memory/
 
# Credit
 
## Content
 
- To make my site fully responsive I used the grid from W3 schools for reference.
https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_rwd_grid.asp
 
- In creating my memory game I followed this video on youtube to gain basic understanding and functionality of how a memory game works and how to program such a game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lhNdUVh3qCc&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org
 
- I used the below site to optimise all images I used on my site.
https://tinypng.com/
 
- I used this site to get the colour palette for my site using NASAs logo as I felt this reflected the theme of my website.
https://imagecolorpicker.com/en
 
- I used this site to learn how to make my footer stick to the end of my page (sticky footer).
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_fixed_footer.asp
 
- I used this site to learn how to write a restart button for my game.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49240718/how-to-create-a-restart-button-for-a-game-in-java-script
 
- I received an error when running my js through a validator and used this site to debug this error.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42866159/arrow-function-syntax-is-only-available-in-es6-use-esversion-6
 
- I used this page to validate my js files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
- I used this page to validate my HTML files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
- I used this page to validate my CSS files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
## Media
 
-  I sourced my background image from Google Images.
https://www.google.com/search?q=blue+background+with+stars&tbm=isch&ved=2ahUKEwjzpcff2bn2AhXBRcAKHWGbAqoQ2-cCegQIABAA&oq=blue+background+with+stars&gs_lcp=CgNpbWcQAzIFCAAQgAQyBQgAEIAEMgUIABCABDIFCAAQgAQyBQgAEIAEMgUIABCABDIGCAAQBRAeMgYIABAFEB4yBggAEAUQHjIGCAAQBRAeUJkCWJkCYLoHaABwAHgAgAFniAGuAZIBAzEuMZgBAKABAaoBC2d3cy13aXotaW1nwAEB&sclient=img&ei=l_coYrP-F8GLgQbhtorQCg&bih=1001&biw=1905&hl=en-GB#imgrc=XMRk9HLGInNphM
 
- I sourced all my images for my memory game from pexel.
https://www.pexels.com/
 
- I sourced my icons from font awesome.
https://fontawesome.com/v5/search
 
- I sourced my fonts from Google font.
https://fonts.google.com/
 
- I used this site to resize my images for my readme file
https://www.iloveimg.com/resize-image#resize-options,percentage

Commit message:

Add description of bugs to testing area in readme file.

README.md, after:

# Planet Memory
 
Welcome to Planet Memory! Choose a planet and play a memory game from that planet. Choose Earth, Mars or the Moon and match each card with its pair. Each card is reflective of the planet it belongs to. Hurry! Match each card before the timer runs out and watch your pairs being counted on the scoreboard.
 
Planet Memory is a simple memory game targeted towards kids/people who like to play spock games. Planet Memory is a fully responsive Javascript game that allows the user to match a pair of cards, playing against the timer to win the game. The counter updates as the user gets a correct match and alerts the user if they match correctly, incorrectly or if the time is up.
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/responsive.png)
 
 
# Features
 
- The homepage of Planet Memory hosts the instructions and 3 links within a list to take the user to each game. It also has the title of the site "Planet Memory" in the header and a footer at the end of the page.
 
# Header
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/header.png)
 
- The header contains the title of my site and an icon to reflect the theme of the game. 
- I also placed a favicon icon in the url for a more aesthetically pleasing user experience. 
- I chose the font Roboto as I felt it reflected the theme of the game the best. 
- The title is easy to see upon viewing the page. 
 
# Instructions
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/instructions.png)
 
- I placed the instructions in a div called aside and styled it in accordance with the website's palette. 
- I added a font awesome icon for aesthetic purposes. 
- The instructions are clear, concise and the first thing the user is drawn to. 
 
# Navigation
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/navigation.png) 

- I placed the navigation to each game in a list and gave each an icon to reflect which planet it was and therefore what theme of game it would be. 
- I followed the website's palette again and spread out the list evenly. 
- When the user hovers over each planet block it changes colour. I thought this was a nice feature for aesthetic purposes.
 
# Footer
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/footer.png)
 
- The footer contains the title of my site and two icons to reflect the theme of the game. 
- I wrote sponsored by NASA as I used NASA's logo colouring as the palette of my website.
 
# Game Area
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/game.png)
 
## Earth Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/earthGame.png)
 
- If the user selects Earth they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again. 
 
- I chose images of the earth as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores planet earth while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the sea, whales, mountains etc all to reflect our blue planet.
 
## Mars Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/marsGame.png)
 
- If the user selects Mars they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again.
 
- I chose images of Mars as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores Mars while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the red planet, rover, an astronaut, galaxies and even a UFO (for fun) all to reflect the red planet.
 
## Moon Game
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/MoonGame.png)
 
- If the user selects the Moon they are taken to the page that hosts the game. The game begins and the player must match the cards with their pair before the timer runs out. As they match their cards the correct answer board collects their matches. When all the cards are matched an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won and if they wish to play again. If it is an incorrect match, an alert is brought to the user to inform them it is incorrect, try again. If a correct match is selected, an alert is brought to the user to inform them they have won a pair and the scoreboard is updated. There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish. If the timer runs out an alert is brought to the user that they have run out of time and if they want to play again. If they select ok the page refreshes and the game starts again.
 
- I chose images of the Moon as my cards. I thought this would be user friendly as the user explores the Moon while trying to match the cards. I chose images of the moon, the Moon setting from earth, the planting of the US flag, a rocket etc all to reflect the Moon.
 
## Score Board & Timer
 
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/timer.png)
 
- I positioned the scoreboard with the timer to keep it neat. 
- When the user gets a correct match the board updates. The timer counts back from 1 minute. 
- Given the general simplicity of this memory game I thought one minute was enough time to try and solve the matches. 
- The timer counts back once the game is opened. If there is no user interaction with the page the timer will keep resetting. 
- If the timer gets to zero the game is over and the player will be asked if they want to play again. 
- There is a back button on the page to take the user back to the home page if they so wish.

## Color Palette

![This is an image](/assets/css/images/nasa.png)
 
- I chose the Nasa logo as the basis for my color palette as I felt it was fitting with the theme. 
 
# Features Left to Implement
 
- I would like to add levels to my game by giving the player less time to play the game- reducing the timer to 30 seconds and so forth. 
- I would like to implement a leaderboard to increase the competitiveness of my game. 
- I would like the user to be able to select a character before exploring each planet. 
- I want to update the images to better quality images to reflect each planet more adequately.
 
# Testing
 
- I tested my site on all formats- mobile phones, tablets and desktops. I used developer tools to make sure my site works on all device sizes. 
- I sent my deployed link to friends and family to double check that it worked adequately on all different types of screens. 
- I tested my site on the website - responsive design checker- which ran my site through a variety of different screen sizes and devices. 
- I inspected each one and was happy with the level of responsivity.
 
- I ran my deployed site on Google Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Opera to make sure all worked well.

- I found some interesting bugs when testing my site:

1. The user was able to click the same card twice and find a match which was incorrect - so I debugged this and turned off the event listener when the user selects the card. 
2. The user could also match the same card twice so I made sure that the card ID and the card chosen were strictly equal for it to be an accurate match. 
3. The timer ran into negative so I made sure it stopped at 0:00 and presented the user with an alert to restart the game. 
 
## Mobile Devices
 
- On Mobile Devices I decided to set each section to 100% width so it would fill the screen of the phone. I thought this made for a good user experience and made everything clearer to read. On Mobile devices that were less than 376px I decided to hide the footer. I found it looked over crowded and made for a better user experience without it.
 
- On Mobile Screens larger than 414px I reintroduced the footer but made the font size 6px so that it wouldn't take up too much space. I placed the back button near the game to make it easy for the user to return to the home page if they desired to.
 
## Tablet Devices
 
- On tablet devices I expanded the content over the width of the screen as well using media queries. Similar to the mobile devices I placed the game under the timer and correct answer board and placed the back button near the game for easy user experience. The footer is also present here as there is more room for it.
 
- With the Surface Duo in particular I decided to treat it more like a mobile phone device as the screen size is small for a tablet (540px) so I pushed the game near the top of the screen and placed the back button beside the game for easy user experience.
 
## Desktop Devices
 
- For Nest Hub, 13" Notebook and 10" Notebook (screen under 1024px) I spread the content across the width of the screen. Placing the game directly under the timer and correct answer board. I placed the button to the left of the screen for easy user experience.
 
- For Nest Hub Max and larger desktop screen sizes I took a different approach and spaced the content of my game differently. I did not stretch the instruction box on the index page as personally I thought it looked too stretched and took up too much space. I also made the navigation to each game smaller. For the gaming section I pushed the correct answer box and timer to the left of the screen and placed the game beside it with the back button just underneath it. I noticed a lot of empty space on the screen when its that size but I preferred this look than trying to spread everything out as when I made the game bigger the images were distorted.
 
# Validator Testing
 
 
## HTML
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/html.png)
- No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator
## CSS
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/css.png)
- No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator
## JavaScript
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/js.png)
- No errors were found when passing through the official Jshint validator
## Accessibility
![This is an image](/assets/css/images/lighthouse.png)
- The colors and fonts chosen in the making of this site are easy to read and accessible by running through lighthouse in devtools.
 
# Unfixed Bugs
 
- I was unable to fix the bug in the timer. The alert pops up when the timer is at 0:01 instead of 0:00. I have programmed an if statement to alert when it's 0:00 but for some reason it alerts at 0:01 and then when the user clicks 'ok' it changes to 0:00 and restarts the clock.
 
- I attempted to change to -1 but because I am preventing the timer going into the negative this did not work. I attempted to make another if statement with the condition (time = time < 0 ? 0 : time;) so the alert would come up at exactly 0:00 but I couldn't manage to get this to work before the deadline.
 
# Deployment
 
- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:
 
1. In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab.
2. From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch.
3. Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.
 
- The live link can be found here - https://healygi.github.io/planet-memory/
 
# Credit
 
## Content
 
- To make my site fully responsive I used the grid from W3 schools for reference.
https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_rwd_grid.asp
 
- In creating my memory game I followed this video on youtube to gain basic understanding and functionality of how a memory game works and how to program such a game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lhNdUVh3qCc&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org
 
- I used the below site to optimise all images I used on my site.
https://tinypng.com/
 
- I used this site to get the colour palette for my site using NASAs logo as I felt this reflected the theme of my website.
https://imagecolorpicker.com/en
 
- I used this site to learn how to make my footer stick to the end of my page (sticky footer).
https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_fixed_footer.asp
 
- I used this site to learn how to write a restart button for my game.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49240718/how-to-create-a-restart-button-for-a-game-in-java-script
 
- I received an error when running my js through a validator and used this site to debug this error.
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42866159/arrow-function-syntax-is-only-available-in-es6-use-esversion-6
 
- I used this page to validate my js files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
- I used this page to validate my HTML files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
- I used this page to validate my CSS files.
https://beautifytools.com/javascript-validator.php
 
## Media
 
-  I sourced my background image from Google Images.
https://www.google.com/search?q=blue+background+with+stars&tbm=isch&ved=2ahUKEwjzpcff2bn2AhXBRcAKHWGbAqoQ2-cCegQIABAA&oq=blue+background+with+stars&gs_lcp=CgNpbWcQAzIFCAAQgAQyBQgAEIAEMgUIABCABDIFCAAQgAQyBQgAEIAEMgUIABCABDIGCAAQBRAeMgYIABAFEB4yBggAEAUQHjIGCAAQBRAeUJkCWJkCYLoHaABwAHgAgAFniAGuAZIBAzEuMZgBAKABAaoBC2d3cy13aXotaW1nwAEB&sclient=img&ei=l_coYrP-F8GLgQbhtorQCg&bih=1001&biw=1905&hl=en-GB#imgrc=XMRk9HLGInNphM
 
- I sourced all my images for my memory game from pexel.
https://www.pexels.com/
 
- I sourced my icons from font awesome.
https://fontawesome.com/v5/search
 
- I sourced my fonts from Google font.
https://fonts.google.com/
 
- I used this site to resize my images for my readme file
https://www.iloveimg.com/resize-image#resize-options,percentage
